Post: collaborative clusters (#343)
ipfs/blog: content/post/076-collaborative-clusters.md

---
date: 2019-01-03
url: 2020-01-03-collaborative-clusters
title: Announcing collaborative clusters
author: Hector Sanjuan
---

We are very excited to announce the first set of public *collaborative
clusters* and the first iteration of the
[collaborative clusters website](https://collab.ipfscluster.io).

*Collaborative clusters* are an easy way to join and help improving distribution
and data availability of specific datasets in the IPFS Network.

> Using IPFS Cluster's

Reviewer: I feel like this is missing some sort of visual or way of communicating the value of a collaborative community cluster. Maybe not blocking here - but try opening a design shop request to @akrych or @ericronne to get their help landing this? Could be a nice visual to also include in the website going forward!

Author: Agreed, I will draft something

[latest release (0.12.0)](https://cluster.ipfs.io/news/0.12.0_release/) we
have set up the first of those archives:

* Filecoin cluster: which will be used to pin Filecoin parameters and
  Filecoin objects.
* Spanish books from the Gutenberg Project: a collection of Spanish literature
  from the [Gutenberg Project](http://www.gutenberg.org/).
* IPFS Websites: a list with a few of the IPFS-universe websites (such as ipfs.io, libp2p.io).

Users can join these clusters by running a single `ipfs-cluster-follow`
command. You will need to have enough space available in your IPFS repository
(check the size row for each cluster on the
[website](https://collab.ipfscluster.io)).

Instructions on how to setup and join these and, in the future, other
collaborative clusters can be found at
[https://collab.ipfscluster.io](https://collab.ipfscluster.io). You can stop
and re-start replication whenever you want. Also, here's a quick video to show
how easy it is:

<script id="asciicast-yV2Bk4nlrPAQ6MQ4w6z3ea0uZ" src="https://asciinema.org/a/yV2Bk4nlrPAQ6MQ4w6z3ea0uZ.js" async></script>

We hope that collaborative clusters will allow the community to participate in

> distributiong and seeding of data they care about, enabling easy "mirroring"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the distribution and seeding of data they care about, enabling easy "mirroring"
```
